all right
welcome back everyone i'm here with
salome asega
who curated our virtual exhibition
bin ends i'm gonna
do a little introduction with salome and
then we'll jump into
a tour first i just want to get everyone
oriented to what's happening here
so many of you are watching on the live
stream right now
we also would ask you to open up our
virtual exhibition on new art city
you can get there by either clicking the
link below the live stream
or up in the menu click on exhibition
and that will launch the virtual
exhibition
we encourage you to spend some time with
that and view all the pieces
after the tour but the tour is going to
give you a nice orientation to just
get you comfortable and acclimated to
our
editing suites um and
you might even want to just keep both
tabs open and follow us around in the
exhibition it's your bandwidth it's your
choice
so hopefully you all have a great
experience and we're looking forward to
your feedback
i'm really honored to introduce salamaya
sega
she's an artist and researcher whose
practice celebrates
dissenses and multi-vocality
she is currently a technology fellow in
the ford
foundation's creativity and free
expression program area
salome is also the co-host of
speculative talk show
hyper opia 2030 vision
on bel air radio and a director of power
plant which is a digital art
collaboratory
in bushwick salome has participated in
residencies and fellowships with ibeam
new museum the laundromat project and
recess art she has exhibited and given
presentations
at the 11th shanghai biennial performa
io and the brooklyn museum salome
received her mfa from parsons at the new
school
in design and technology where she also
teaches
thank you so much for being here today
solomon for putting together this great
exhibition for us
thank you kalani i'm so excited to be
here with all of you on the first
night of the gray area festival i'm
really looking forward to this week of
talks by
so many brilliant folks before
introducing the show i just kind of
wanted to quickly give some a couple of
thank yous
thank you to kalani and barry for
inviting me to organize the show this
year
thank you nikki for getting the show up
on new york city
and thank you to dawn for building new
york city this platform is so exciting
to me because it's an
artist-built and driven platform so don
has done such a wonderful job
of growing new york city new york city
in a way
that supports and fulfills the needs of
media artists
having um to show their work virtually
um okay so now we're going to move into
the show kalani is going to guide us so
you should see that there on your screen
um
so welcome to bin ends bin ends was a
term used in early filmmaking
where editors would save the offcuts of
film strips
that were not going to be used in the
final project and they'd
archive or save them in bins in the
editing rooms
just in case the director wanted to
rework final scenes
so the works you see in the show are
digital offcuts
they're the pieces of projects that
stayed in the studio that stayed in
on the premiere timeline that didn't get
exported from unity
but also didn't end up in the trash the
works in the show speak to an artist's
process and iteration
with so many shows getting cancelled
this year in calendar shifting we're
moving slower
and in a way that in ways that are
requiring us to be more present
i wanted to move away from showing final
polished pieces
and take this as an opportunity to
revisit the bins
so welcome to the cutting room floor so
we'll start by
entering editing suite one you see the
four
doors there and they act as portals into
the different rooms
so in room one we have two works
first we have american artist who is
sharing the process
of creating screen crack patterns on
iphones for their installation
no state that is part of their black gui
universe series from 2018. the larger
project
project asks the question what if we
continued to use the black
backdrop of the original command line
interface instead of the white backdrop
of the graphical user interface which
was introduced its personal computers in
the 1970s
in this room we also have work by romy
ron morrison
who who's showing pieces from the future
conditional
it's a series of interactive tactile
sound installations
embedded in hanging quilts the sounds
are pulled from conversations the artist
is having with black feminist
scholars friends and family members
about black feminist archives and
futures
i love how romy brings us closer to how
information
information is encrypted in our cultural
artifacts
to be passed down under your tongue
[Music]
now we're going to move into editing
suite 2.
we have three works in this room that
each
are visual poems and non-linear story
forms
that are addressing our relationships to
the internet and technology
through a cyber femme centered lens um
first we have their a video poem
sketched by
olivia michaela ross who i think is
maybe in the room
so um you can invite them
maybe to speak a little bit about this
yeah let's pull in olivia okay
here comes olivia hi
um this was a video poem that i wrote
a few months a few months ago um
when i was thinking um i was just having
really weird existential thoughts about
cameras and surveillance
um and i was thinking a lot about um
this kind of conversation of between
um like surveillance
and divinity um and thinking about
what it meant to um in so many like
religions of like ancient times like the
idea
that you're not allowed to look um
your ruler in the eye uh and
kind of just like the privacy that power
gives you
um and i wanted to i just wanted to
write as a way of like experimenting
with what it would look like
to build power amongst marginalized
people
in a way that could build privacy um
and that resulted in this which is one
an iteration of something that i'm still
kind of working through and rolling
through now
i love this piece so much and there's
like a particular
line in the poem um that like
i find myself saying yes to where it's
like your eyes are going white
and you're talking about eating jeff
bezos like a mango seed and i'm like so
happy
i want to see that yes um thank you so
much olivia
thank you um in this
room we also have work by
e jane who is also on the line so we can
pull
them in cool
oops
i'm navigating through the multiverse
one second here comes e jane
just gonna grab them okay
welcome hi thanks for having
me um yeah so this this work is from
um so basically it's like um
like i do i do a bunch of like i'm gonna
start and this work is from like a
series of music videos that i recreate
from an archive
of music videos from the 90s that i have
um that i like perform with through my
alter ego persona
visa and so like two of the clips are
misa performing and like takes
i took of her like trying to perform ali
is one in a million
um and they didn't make it into the
final cut of the
of the video um the re-performance video
but like
they were still really exciting and they
had these moments where like there's a
lot of like failure
like um the camera like falls i'm trying
to like use tick-tock
and like do like this like weird
makeshift like um
tripod um and then like it shows all the
little parts where i'm like kind of like
stopping the footage and like playing
the footage in the second clip
and the third clip is like um i also
like use like google images
google search videos youtube videos and
videos i take out in the world and so
the third video was a video i took out
in the world that i didn't really use
but i still think it's like really
pretty so i thought this would be a good
place for it
i love this project so much because it
speaks to just
how it just reminds me of a very
particular time where
i was like taking my family's camcorder
to recreate destiny's child music videos
and like learning how to edit and
i know super tender like i was like
learning how to edit and that's where i
like you know is one of my entry points
to like
becoming a media artist right like i was
editing and using
technology and like editing using the
vcr and stuff
so um yeah it speaks to a very specific
fan girl moment
in it for me yeah i think it was like
when i was studying video art in grad
school it was like i
i didn't take to a lot of the forums i
was being given to make inside of
and like i was really obsessed with like
commercial forms i grew up with so like
commercials
music videos like stuff like that just
felt really easy as like a
like a format for me to work inside of
it definitely helped me develop a
language so that's funny
you so much um we have one more work in
this room
by margot baumann who is a filmmaker
um this is an animated series called
summer of kate
it's a sci-fi uh cartoon where
political uncertainty plays out in a
character's uh on all the characters sex
lives
um and so you see a lot of um
the main character you see a lot of
angst about her relationship to
technology and texting her
partners and maybe not hearing back and
um
yeah there she is on an island and she
goes through this narrative
of texting a partner of someone using
staring at a small screen
she studied the sand and then flipped
her gaze onto the horizon
micro macro micro macro yeah definitely
need to spend some time with this work
it's really beautiful yeah the summer of
height
should we go into the third suite yeah
let's go to
um room three okay
so in this product in this room we have
two projects that are
exploring urgent social realities
through linear forms
so we have um here we have
alfredo salazar cairo's work uh dreams
of a jaguar's daughter
the clips in this show are from the
first chapter of the trilogy
which paul is a young immigrant spirit
girl on her journey north from the
guatemalan jungles to the arizona desert
each chapter in this uh vr series is in
part composed
from documentation of immigrants
journeys through the 2018 caravan
so alfredo is at the border he's
mexican america and he shoots like he's
collecting um this material himself
and bringing it into three days
and then in this room we also have um a
project by mariam binani and orion
barkey
called q lizards the instagram animated
series that helped me get through the
early phases of the pandemic
though the characters are all a very
fabulous 3d modeled animals
with social anxieties and fear and hope
for a future
were absolutely tangible uh the series
also grew with us
uh into the summer as blm
organizing and protests picked up and uh
you see the compounding of fights to be
fought right between
blm organizing and the pandemic and the
rise of copenhagen
it's so cool to see some of the
animation renders in there and actually
see how they brought those
characters to life after getting to know
them so well on instagram
yeah editing suite for last room
yeah here we go let's check it out
so we have two projects in this room
and i think one of the artists is on the
line right toto
is here so maybe we can pull her in okay
cool let's grab
her here she comes
hey
[Music]
i think we're the room is still loading
but we'll get to you
here we go oh there we are
so do you want to talk a little about um
this piece here sure can
anybody hear me yes fairly cool
um so um
[Music]
how do i start so the 500
lies without that was pretty much my
first interactive project that i had
made
during my first year of school i had
just
arrived as an
you know out of the u.s transplant and
was trying to explore during my first
term
a little bit about different diasporic
places
of the thai community and
coincidentally the month after i
came the country entered like a
year morning period because thailand is
by theory a constitutional monarchy but
the
uh the monarch at the time had just
passed away after
more than 70 years of of rain so there
was a long
a long time and
after that basically this one year
morning period where there was no
entertainment everything was meant to be
black and white
there was some type of a serious period
where people had to
sort of like sit down and reflect and it
actually took a year
to host the whole funeral
so i just went to this
thai temple that was that is still in
queens
and elmhurst and
every day they do sermons uh in the
morning
and then in the afternoon too so i
what the whole project is pretty much
was
this prototype of a meditational space
that i uh put on one of the screens
in the prayers room so as you can see on
the top left
there's actually a screen that they
would never use during the sermons
and the prayers and
they would use mostly that screen for
newsletters like interactive newsletter
messaging boards and so i actually
very politely asked them if i could uh
use it as a project and film one of the
uh one of the prayers um
and they were super nice they
they said yes uh for some reason so
i just made everything on on unity
which definitely you know i had to
have some some tinkering and there's a
lot of mistakes that i did
too during that so it never reached full
completion but i was happy that i was
able to capture it on site
yeah i love um watching this video how
the visual dynamics are
triggered by the monk's prayers so
you're seeing like in real time
um the relationship between the screen
and the people in the room
yeah yeah i was and i was mostly playing
visually with
uh different artifacts of memorabilia
from
from thailand and have that playability
between just different batteries
kind of like more urban settings and
then
also the way the camera is centered it's
actually in a submerged like rice field
mm-hmm um thank you so much
thank you sorry to interrupt i just need
to bring in
our other interpreter okay really
quickly
and if the artists um thank you all for
joining to chat but if you want to go
ahead and leave the conversation
and listen in i appreciate it thank you
[Music]
okay hi candace
so we have just one more work in this
room uh
we have work by basan saad the pizzas in
this
show are from a larger larger project
called
all cared for by chains and loops that
investigates the garbage crisis in
beirut as an entry point to
understanding
um the system skills of care
so this artist is thinking about
self-care
global care chains and for-profit waste
management networks
and so here are some renderings and
stills from that project here
and chloe i think that's everything
that's all the work
yeah i think that covers it
you